across their range
spider monkeys have declined by over 50
percent in the last 45 years
this is now the eighth troop to be
released by the rescue center
and will help boost the wild population
[Music]
it's been a very a very long journey
with them with various ups and downs
these are monkeys that have had an awful
start to life they've been ripped away
from their mothers from their families
and now here they all laugh so you
couldn't couldn't ask for anything
really better
they don't know what's going on they're
just looking through what they can see
through the cages
but it's finally sinking in now that
we're only minutes away from
letting them out it's the last minutes
that they're going to be in a cage for
the rest of their life
[Music]
we've done pretty much everything we can
and this is this is the combination of
it and
there's no much more than godspeed and
good luck monkeys
[Music]
laughs
as the troop starts to explore their new
world
there's one monkey who is refusing to
come out
[Music]
bruce he's not quite ready to head into
the wild
and needs a bit of encouragement to
leave the safety of his cage
[Music]
seeing them up there is where they meant
to be so it couldn't
it couldn't be a nicer feeling to be
honest
it's one of those things that you kind
of dream about that never actually think
is going to happen
and it's
[Music]
it's really heavy it doesn't look like
it's happy it's
it's just incredible it's i can't stop
smiling
[Music]
over the next few months some of the
team will stay in the forest to follow
the monkey's progress
after that they're on their own
[Music]
[Applause]
you